Writing my personal learning memoir made me think a lot about my past and carefully organize it into meaningful events.  This helped me initially plan out the order of events for my essay, however upon writing it I decided that it didn’t have quite the right effect.  The introduction starting at an early point in my life didn’t really create any excitement to draw the reader in.  I decided to start the essay at the climax of the learning experience to draw the reader in, then start explaining what the excitement was about.

When creating the essay I also took note to point out one of the most pivotal characters in the progress of my story, Dean, who helped me to achieve my ultimate goal.  This I added to give a more human tone to the story and break up all the personal thought with interaction of an outside character.

After the private appointment review I had, I decided it was necessary to make the point of the essay more clear.  To do this I began by removing some of the paragraphs which did not have a clear purpose and replacing them with stronger learning experiences in my live, such as the independent study course I took to help me towards my goal of creating an autonomous car.  I also revised the concluding paragraph and broke it into three portions with a flash-back in the middle to add some clarity to the events leading up to the phone call.  In addition I removed the paragraph describing my interest in hardware as it did not lead to a clear and focused learning goal in the end of the paper.  Finally I added to the final paragraph to reinforce the idea of pushing myself to learn more eventually got me a position as a real programmer, my eventual goal.

Lastly I added in the idea of the autonomous car as my eventual goal in my learning as it had always been a motivating factor of my development as a programmer.  This also added a reason for the development that was made throughout the story that the reader could see to give it more of a story feel and not so much of an arbitrary sequence of events as one of the peer reviewers had suggested.

Though I’ve never written a memoir before I feel that I have learned quite a lot about what it is a reader is looking for in one.  This being said I feel I have incorporated most of the elements that are necessary in creating a memoir that is both informative and entertaining to a reader.